Update cluster-spec with Valkey 8.0 cluster improvements (#167)
valkey-io/valkey-doc: topics/cluster-spec.md

* All queries about existing keys are processed by "A".
* All queries about non-existing keys in A are processed by "B", because "A" will redirect clients to "B".

> Starting from Valkey 8.0, the `CLUSTER SETSLOT` command is synchronously replicated to all healthy replicas
> running Valkey version 8.0+. By default, this synchronous replication must complete within 2 seconds.

Reviewer: It's replicated only if all connected replicas are running valkey 8+, if I remember correctly.

```suggestion
Starting from Valkey 8.0, the `CLUSTER SETSLOT` command is synchronously replicated to all healthy replicas
if all replicas are running Valkey version 8.0+. By default, this synchronous replication must complete within 2 seconds.
```

Author: We are not requiring all replica nodes to be running 8.0. We went with eligible (in terms of both version and healthy state) nodes. I think rolling upgrades are a transient state. It should be acceptable to trade reliability for availability during this window, when upgrading from pre-8 to post 8 version.

Reviewer: OK, maybe I haven't fully understood this, but we use a shared replication buffer so all replicas receive the same stream of commands, right? In #686, we check for legacy replicas and if one is found, we don't replicate setslot to any replica. Correct me if I'm wrong.

Reviewer: I mean, we don't have to highlight this scenario, but the text should still be correct.

Reviewer: This is even explained in the PR description of #686:

> Older replicas do not support the CLUSTER SETSLOT command on replicas. If such a replica is found, the replication is skipped and falls back to the old (non-replicated) behavior.

Author: Ah, sorry for the confusion. I see that I didn't word it accurately. I can fix that but I think the higher order question is what behavior do we like? "all or none" or "eligible replicas". I am in favor of "eligible replicas" because it is still better than no replication at all. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Replicating it only to "eligible replicas" would be better, but that's now what's currently implemented. That would require separate replication streams for legacy and new replicas. We have a single replication stream.

Can we just formulate this in a way that doesn't stress this difference? There's a difference only during rolling upgrade.

Reviewer: For example just omit the exact details. How about something like this?

> Starting from Valkey 8.0, the `CLUSTER SETSLOT` command is synchronously replicated if the replicas are running Valkey version 8.0+. By default, this synchronous replication must complete within 2 seconds.

Author: sounds good to me

If the replication fails, the primary does not execute the command, and the client receives a
`NOREPLICAS Not enough good replicas to write` error. Operators can retry the command or customize the
timeout using the `TIMEOUT` parameter to further increase the reliability of live reconfiguration:

    CLUSTER SETSLOT slot [MIGRATING|IMPORTING|NODE] node-id [TIMEOUT timeout]

> Here, `timeout` is measured in seconds, with 0 meaning to wait indefinitely.

Reviewer: The timeout option should (also) be described in the command documentation: `commands/cluster-setslot.md`

sent to all other nodes to avoid waiting for the natural
propagation of the new configuration across the cluster.

#### Synchronous replication of `CLUSTER SETSLOT`

Starting from Valkey 8.0, the `CLUSTER SETSLOT` command is synchronously replicated to all healthy replicas
running Valkey version 8.0+. By default, this synchronous replication must complete within 2 seconds.
If the replication fails, the primary does not execute the command, and the client receives a
`NOREPLICAS Not enough good replicas to write` error. Operators can retry the command or customize the

> timeout using the `TIMEOUT` parameter to further increase the reliability of live reconfiguration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
timeout using the `TIMEOUT` parameter to further increase the reliability of live resharding:
```
Everywhere else in this doc we call it live resharding and not "live reconfiguration". I think we should be consistent.

Author: I picked this phrase (live reconfiguration) from the section title https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-doc/pull/167/files#diff-93c993e7eca8dc9073483f2c2bc33f13fd9ebd7c2a3a3657b364bca84d5f289eL406 :)

This is also pretty much the first time I came across this terminology. Any concern if I update the section title to "live resharding" too for consistency?

Reviewer: I guess "reconfiguration" includes adding and removing nodes. Resharding is only about moving slots?

I'm fine with either of the terms. :)

Author: Yes, but these concepts are intertwined. We mainly move slots due to node arrivals or departures. :)  While I slightly prefer 'resharding' at the moment, 'reconfiguration' also works for me. I do feel strongly though about consistency.

    CLUSTER SETSLOT slot [MIGRATING|IMPORTING|NODE] node-id [TIMEOUT timeout]

Here, `timeout` is measured in seconds, with 0 meaning to wait indefinitely.

> Synchronous replication is critical for maintaining cluster consistency during live reconfiguration.
> Before applying changes like slot ownership and migrating states to the primary, these must be fully
> replicated to all replicas. This prevents loss of state if the primary fails after executing the command.
> 
> Consider a scenario where the target primary node `B` is finalizing a slot migration.
> Before the `SETSLOT` command is replicated to its replica node `B’`, `B` might send a cluster `PONG`
> message to the source primary node `A`, promoting `A` to relinquish its ownership of the slot in question.
> If `B` crashes right after this point, the replica node `B’`, which could be elected as the new primary,
> would not be aware of the slot ownership transfer without the synchronous replication of `SETSLOT`.
> This would leave the slot without an owner, leading to potential data loss and cluster topology inconsistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replicating the slot information prevents loss of state if the primary fails after executing the command.
Consider a scenario where the target primary node `B` is finalizing a slot migration.
Before the `SETSLOT` command is replicated to its replica node `B’`, `B` might send a cluster `PONG`
message to the source primary node `A`, promoting `A` to relinquish its ownership of the slot in question.
If `B` crashes right after this point, the replica node `B’`, which could be elected as the new primary,
would not be aware of the slot ownership transfer without the synchronous replication of `SETSLOT`.
This would leave the slot without an owner, leading to potential data loss and cluster topology inconsistency.
```

sent to all other nodes to avoid waiting for the natural
propagation of the new configuration across the cluster.

Starting from Valkey 8.0, Valkey clusters introduce the ability to elect a primary in empty shards.
This behavior ensures that even when a shard is in the process of receiving its first slot,
a primary can be elected. This prevents scenarios where there would be no primary available in the
empty shard to handle redirected requests from the official slot owner,
thereby maintaining availability during the live reconfiguration.

> ### ASK redirection

Reviewer: A blank line before the next heading never hurts and it's safer for correct rendering. (The rendering on the website could be different to how github renders it.)

(for the sake of redundancy in the documentation) in the `CLUSTER SETSLOT`
command documentation.

Starting from Valkey 8.0, when the primary in either the source or target shard fails during live reconfiguration,
the primary in the other shard will automatically attempt to update its migrating/importing state to correctly pair
with the newly elected primary. If this update is successful, the ASK redirection will continue functioning without

> requiring operator intervention.

Reviewer: Good.

But to complete the slot migration, the cluster does need manual intervention though, at least if valkey-cli is used, right? I mean if a failover happens while `valkey-cli cluster rehard` or `valkey-cli cluster rebalance` is running, valkey-cli aborts, right? Shouldn't we explain what an admin needs to do to complete the slot migration? `valkey-cli cluster --fix` can handle it?

Should we also mention that replicas are now able to return ASK redirects? I added it already to the READONLY command docs but maybe it's good to mention it briefly here in the ASK section in the cluster spec too?

This is what we have for the READONLY command regarding replicas sending redirects:

       3. Since Valkey 8.0, if a slot migration is ongoing.  In this case  the
          replica  can  return  an ASK redirect or a TRYAGAIN error reply.  In
          earlier versions, replicas are not aware of ongoing slot migrations.

Reviewer: Added text looks great. Thanks.

(for the sake of redundancy in the documentation) in the `CLUSTER SETSLOT`
command documentation.

Starting from Valkey 8.0, when the primary in either the source or target shard fails during live reconfiguration,
the primary in the other shard will automatically attempt to update its migrating/importing state to correctly pair
with the newly elected primary. If this update is successful, the ASK redirection will continue functioning without
requiring administrator intervention. In the event that slot migration fails, administrators can manually resume
the interrupted slot migration by running the command `valkey-cli --cluster fix <ip:port>`.

Additionally, since Valkey 8.0, replicas are now able to return `ASK` redirects during slot migrations.
This capability was previously unavailable, as replicas were not aware of ongoing slot migrations in earlier versions.

> It's worth noting that this change has already been documented in the READONLY command section.

Reviewer: "already" and "worth noting", well, I added it a month ago, so roughly at the same time as this. We can just refer to READONLY if you want.

```suggestion
See the [READONLY](../commands/readonly.md) command.
```
